Signature Work:


   Throughout my time at St. Thomas, I have been put into many thought provoking and challenging situations here in the Computer Science Department. Some of my proudest moments when doing classwork have been in my room completing 40-50 hour long projects in the course of two nights (Yes that was a huge mistake, but I learned a lot about myself and my capabilities that way). The three projects I have to showcase are my Computer Graphics 2D Animations, my Algorithms Dynamic Algo assignment and my most recent St Paul Crime Map project (a combination of two projects being the UI and API). 


  Through my most recent assignment (St Paul Crime Map), I was able to create a live website to give users the opportunity to look at crime trends throughout the entirety of St. Paul. This project was the first time I did something inside the Computer Science Department that really had a real world impact. [I don’t count my Capstones work because I felt like I did not add much to the overall project, but was just a gear in the giant machine known as RCDS) We were able to look at crime trends and get actual statistics by using an API we made. This project will help me develop useful tools that will benefit the common good now that I have a taste for it. I will use this experience to continue to refine my abilities and create new tools for bigger purposes. The reason I chose to include this specific project is because I wanted to showcase my very first step in this direction. When I come back 5 years down the line, I wish to see the progress I have made throughout my time as a Software Engineer.
                      
  Completing the Algorithms assignment was a big lesson to me about perseverance. My manager (I work as a Software Engineer part-time at US Bank right now) told me all about how much he appreciates my ability to persevere through complicated tasks. Rather than giving up after a couple tries, I am able to continuously chip away at a large coding project until I complete that project. I can thank this particular assignment for this trait. Prior to this class, I was becoming a very big procrastinator when it came to homework. I would always wait until the very last moment before starting an assignment. I would get this sense of panic and then lock myself in a room and complete that project in two days. I was doing the exact same thing for my Algorithms class right up until this very assignment. I decided to do the exact same thing by waiting to do a project before the last day. Once I began I ran into my very first roadblock. I had no idea where to start. I dedicated every waking moment of the next 3 days to completing this assignment, not giving up under any circumstances. That assignment gave me the ability to overcome any obstacle through sheer determination and hard work. This trait will assist me in larger coding project in the future and I cannot wait to refine that tool.
                      
  Lastly is my 2d Animation assignment in my Computer Graphics class. This assignment was the very first time I was actually able to do real math theory in my coding. Prior to this, everything was all object based or simple math. Doing this code really proved to me that being strong in math was a useful tool to have when coding and inspired me to get a minor in Statistics. The reason I showed this assignment is because I wanted to show a monumental assignment that really shaped my path as a Developer. With a Statistics minor under my belt, I am more confident in analyzing real world problems and coming up with solutions to benefit the common good using the tools I developed.
                     
  All together, each of these projects individually shaped me into the coder I am today. I am very grateful for the opportunity that was given to me at the University of St Thomas and cannot wait to use the tools I sharpened and get out into the real world to make a difference. I want to thank every Professor that helped shape me, specifically Professor Ryan Hardt because he let me take a summer course on computer programming asynchronously. If it was for the leniency he gave me, I wouldn’t be the coder I am today. 
